oh oh man
i'm a little bit nervous no um
it's a really normal feeling yeah
so so yeah i wanted to ask a question
related to um
to a recent social situation i lived
uh and i think i think it's kind of
uh correlated with my dharma but
we're gonna get to that i guess so
so so yeah every time i screw up
it takes me a long time to wake up even
though
i can live in the moment at times
i tend to remember what i did to to the
person i'm looking at if they're close
um because i want forgiveness and i have
to change myself so it doesn't happen
um i have to find myself in
in a situation where i want to talk to
the person in person
about that but but i have i have a hard
time doing so
because i see it inappropriate when when
the other person
has already moved on after the issue was
taken care of
on the phone to the chat or voice
messages
um while being
stressful situations i tend to analyze
every detail
what i think was done right and wrong i
did it all the time
and and when i think i find problems
problems i want to solve solve them as
soon as possible so
so my mind is not filled with them when
i'm alone
uh then dancing
uh producing music doing things with
friends
meditate sometimes and and in this case
working
with a friend of mine in a project we
have hopes of
for it succeeding sometimes it helps but
it's even cathartic but it's not enough
because
then because i returned to the
to the to the process of of analysis
okay so let me let me ask you a question
so it sounds to me like
you spend a lot of time going over
mistakes that you think you made in your
head
when it relates to interacting with
other people
yes okay yes so
let me ask can you just tell us like an
example of like a mistake that you made
with someone and what kind of thoughts
you were having
yeah yesterday um a friend of mine i
mean
um her father went to the hospital and
and i started to
to ask to ask to ask if uh
how how was she feeling like uh
how to how how she was dealing with it
like
in a moment that it was inappropriate
for her and and i didn't know it until
uh until last night when
when another friend of flowers told me
hey man
you went too far like um she she didn't
like
at all the
that you tried that you tried to um
to to search for
how she was filmed and
and can you walk me through the
conversation that you had with her
[Music]
with a friend who told me that i screwed
up
the the the the the conversation you had
with the original person about the
hospital and how they were handling it
oh yeah um when she was at a hospital i
asked her
um
i mean how many times like what what
like how many questions did you ask her
that i can remember just one like uh how
how are you feeling uh
and you thought that that was asking too
much
no not at all i wanted to to support her
and so and so it sounds like your friend
thought that what you said was
inappropriate
um yep and
do you agree with your friend uh
it depends on how you look at it like uh
at the moment
she didn't feel good at all because she
her mind
she was thinking of her father basically
you know the person who
yeah who was harmed and um
in that sense yeah it was thank i think
it was technically inappropriate but uh
but uh so and what do you go by what
what do you how should i address you
adam
my name is adam adam with an m or an n
yeah it is with an n okay can you
so adam here here is my initial thought
okay and i'm sorry that
maybe this won't be very helpful but
so first is that you know i would
how can i say this so i would be really
paying attention to
what are the drivers inside you
at each step of the way so
you know like let me just give you an
example so we sometimes have people in
our community
want to help other people but they don't
want to help other people
they want to help other people for their
own sake
like i need to feel good about myself
in order to feel good about myself i
need to help someone else
so they're helping other people almost
become selfish
and and like sometimes like those people
really don't like respect
boundaries well because they're like oh
i can really help you i can really help
you like i need you
to let me help you
and and so sometimes like people will
not feel confidence or won't feel good
about themselves
unless they are able to help other
people
yeah so i think it's worthwhile
exploring
whether you fall into that so when
you're trying to think
yeah i think i've fallen into that
sometimes yeah
right so that's something that you need
to be really careful about and just kind
of notice that
and and sometimes you know for people
because i i mean what you're describing
doesn't sound inappropriate to me it
sounds like
you know you had a friend that was going
through a tough time and you just asked
them one question
about how they're feeling and then like
yeah you know having an issue
like uh i can remember uh how much into
detail i went
right now yet you can or cannot
i cannot yeah that's okay so so that's
why we're gonna just
you know so what the situation you're
describing doesn't sound inappropriate
to me
so even if it's not inappropriate we can
still lay out
like how to approach the problem okay so
one is that you know
if your desire to help other people
comes from
a need that you have to help other
people
then that's not really good it's not
healthy
because people may not need your help
but you
are like trying to force your help on
them that's one option
second thing to think a little bit about
is that you know when your friend
like maybe your friend like maybe the
problem is with your friend it may not
be
you at all it could be that your friend
is behaving you know that really what
you asked was completely okay and you
you know your friend just thinks it was
inappropriate but it's not really
inappropriate
so then the question becomes if your
friend says something
why do you trust their word instead of
your own judgment
yeah that's tough right now
right so like it's a little bit
unclear but i think at the end of the
day the most important thing adam is
is to just to to think a little bit
about what's driving you on the inside
you know like so even when and i think
your original question was about
how you overthink things when you have
interactions with people
and so so like if we think about
overthinking
what is the root of that overthinking
like what are you concerned about
when you're overthinking like when
you're thinking about this like what
i i don't know how to say this but like
you know when you have anxiety over
something
you're usually afraid of a particular
thing happening
and so all of your overthinking is going
to revolve
around something that could happen does
that make sense
yeah what is the thing that you're
afraid of
that will happen
um
[Music]
the the person uh
ends up not being able to to deal with
many many stressful stressful situations
or bad situations
so you're concerned about how the person
is going to end up
not what they're going to think about
you know
yeah how the person is going to end up
and so you think that something that you
you told them
is going to like actually cause them
harm
no i don't think
i don't think that at those moments you
know and
then what i'm saying is disgusting or
it's gonna cause harm like uh
at the moment i um i recognize it
because
i an amount of harm but
in the long term i'm not sure either
i i i'm starting to lose you a little
bit adam
what are you when you overthink a
situation
what what like help me understand can
you tell me what your actual thoughts
are
can you repeat when uh when i when you
overthink something so here's what i
understand
yeah so what's an example of the kind of
thoughts that you have
like uh for example from
[Music]
like if the person if if i detect the
person has uh
problems with with codependence for
example
uh i think on how
how how can i help them
deal with uh with a certain situation
so so they don't depend on others and
and they
and they and they for example accept uh
how things are
and uh and
so you try to help people with their
codependence
yeah that's one example okay yeah
because in this case with this friend of
mine i detect
codependence uh from her
you know from and how does she respond
to that
um when we talk about it and she's not
dealing with uh with a hard situation
like yesterday's
it's fine like she she told me like it's
okay that
we talk about those things when uh
what she said when it's about the past
that when i when i'm dealing with
something
hard for me um
it bothers me what bothers you about
that
no no it bothers her i mean i i was
i was talking from her from her angle
like
so adam and i i'd start by like this
issue which is like why you have to
bring up the codependents in the first
place
right now right so so like this is where
i
i think like you said you fall into this
category of people who like need to
like there are people who are fixers
right so people
who like need to fix other people
um yeah as well as myself
yeah so i think this is where a lot of
times like being a fixer
comes from the inability to fix yourself
um yeah it could be yeah
so this is where like what's gonna
happen is like you're gonna you're gonna
you know go around trying to fix all the
problems in the world
instead of like like to make up for the
fact that you can't like fix yourself
well i i spent a lot of time
uh trying to well
fix myself and how's that working
in many in many areas
it's working on some in some areas but
not not
not on others like
i used to or i tend to um
to to be like
i can fix things on my own
and uh and i think i have a hard time to
not just for help but to to um
move on with the process of getting help
how do you feel about getting help
yeah how do you feel about getting help
um
right now i mean right now you mean
like so when it comes to your problems
how do you feel about you getting help
from other people to fix your problems
oh uh sometimes it feels good
i mean at the moment it's stressful but
what's stressful about it
um
[Music]
i i think that they burned my lives away
that's how i see it they what they burn
my lies away
burn your what away my lies i'm sorry
um oh they burn your lies away when you
get help from other people
yeah and how do you feel about having
your lies burned away
um stressful
yeah so adam i think that this is like
gonna be a little bit complicated but
here's what i think okay so i think
you've got to be like really careful
here because i think that you're falling
into this trap of like
you know you're so eager to help other
people
and you're you really want to like like
it's a good thing right because you want
to make the world a better place
you want to protect people from
suffering you want to point out to other
people the problems that you have
but i'm reminded of what they say on
airplanes which is put your own oxygen
mask on before you
you help someone else with theirs yeah
yeah i agree and so i think a lot of
this stuff is like weird like projection
is is kind of like what we think about
in psychology which is like
you're trying to go out and fix all
these other people's problems
but it seems like you're hesitant to
have other people look at yours
and as long as you're fixing the rest of
the world like you don't have to worry
about fixing yourself
whereas i think what you need to do is
do it the other way like focus on
yourself first
and i i know this sounds weird adam but
like i don't try to help anyone
i know and and what i've found is that
like when people
need your help it's part it's like
like their job to come to you and ask
for it
like you don't go around trying to force
people
into improving their lives
and and oftentimes when i see people who
do that that has to do more with like
themselves and it has to do with the
other people now i think buried
like it throughout all this stuff you
sound to me like a very
genuinely caring person and that you
want to wake make the world the better a
better place
and the world needs more people like you
and so i think it's wonderful that you
have all those qualities
but i think that you have to really put
your own mind in order
for you to be able to like see someone
objectively
because as long as you have all these
issues like going on in your head
your mind is gonna warp what you see
from the rest of the world
and it's hard to describe but like i've
just seen that you know people who are
really capable of helping someone else
have their own houses in order first
yeah yeah yeah i i'm aware of that and i
try to apply it
but i see i see i see i fail when
this kind of situations happen like when
i screw up it's like uh
what if i was to focus on on them when
they didn't mean
me right so then the question becomes
how does it feel
to not be needed by them um
when i'm aware it's like uh oh crap they
don't mean me but
i have my own things like i'm gonna
leave them alone it takes me time but
at that at that time at that moment in
time i wasn't aware at all
yeah i thought i was doing actually
actually good
of course and i think that's what i mean
i think you're a caring person but i i
think that something about the way that
your mind is working
your ego is getting involved with your
caring
right so like what i'm detecting from
what you're saying and i could be wrong
here because i don't really have a
complete picture
i understand but but what i'm kind of
hearing is that like helping other
people
is like a part of your identity
and at that point it's no longer about
them it's actually about you
and usually when that happens
like you can end up hurting people
right which is what you're afraid of
when when in when it becomes about me
helping people instead of about them yup
mm-hmm yeah yeah sometimes it happens
i i'm i do my best to acknowledge the
fear
and to and to think logically like um
so i'm gonna i can do it might happen
that i harm this person at this moment
but if this doesn't happen or if i don't
do it yeah that that's the so i don't
that's how this stuff can could happen
yeah so but that's not your problem
well yeah right that's their life and so
like the main question that i have for
you and i think you've got to be careful
there
which is oh it looks like we got it
right so i'll i'll be with you guys in
just a second we're just wrapping up
okay
so adam here's what i'd say like i think
it goes back to when when it comes to
helping
other people helping you you said
something about lies
that your lies are like seen through
um yeah i mean sometimes i don't agree
with what they say
and and that is stressful too yeah so
so i think that's time yeah that's where
i think you need to do the work
okay so it's not about whether they're
right or wrong but what i really want
you to do is
stop focusing on other people and focus
on yourself
first and even if they're right or wrong
don't turn away from other people
helping you
and even when it comes to helping other
people
notice that that driver is like kind of
like a hunger inside you like it almost
feels like
a hunger to me that you need to help
other people
yeah and and so just be a little bit
careful about that
mm-hmm okay because like you
you know if you're satisfying your own
hunger you're not really helping other
people
like sure other people can benefit from
it it's true
and and so just be and and this is where
like i think part of the problem is like
i don't know if you're okay being
selfish but i think like
you need to learn how to be selfish yeah
i'm okay with being selfish
okay good so so i i mean
something about everything that you're
saying adam is is the takeaway that i'm
hearing from you and i'm i apologize if
i'm not
you know able to understand your
situation quite as well
it's okay i i think that you should stop
like look at yourself more and try to
help yourself more
and then as you grow as a person other
people will
come to you yeah for help
you shouldn't seek it out like when you
have your own life in order
other people believe me will show up
yeah something happens good yeah so
those are the people you should focus on
helping but it's not the kind of thing
where you go around and like hunt people
down and try to help them like it's nice
to be a caring friend
it's nice to help people when they come
to you
but you know i'd really focus on helping
yourself first and like put that oxygen
mask on before you start
dealing with someone else yes
okay yeah yeah i'm yeah i'm in the
process
good that's that's the point yeah yeah
and i think i think being a part of this
conversation is a part of that process
so i really commend you for coming on
today
oh what does command mean
command means i think you did an awesome
job and i'm very happy that i think you
did a good job
thank you yeah thank you for uh for
letting me in right
yeah i think it's great i think a lot of
people can resonate and
and hearing hearing your situation like
a lot of people can relate to that
yeah um i also have another issue
it's part of helping myself okay indeed
um some many times uh
i feel that vote in my heart in regards
to physical affection right
it affects me when when people i i have
an emotional
emotional connection with uh go to their
homes and i can
and i cannot even hug them and and many
times when i wake up
in the morning some
like um sometimes uh
you know thinking about the things that
i can work on
like music or or dancing it helps
but uh it's taking me a while to wake up
lately i'm sorry i don't unders i don't
quite understand it sounds like you have
trouble
not being able to hug people when you
leave
um yeah to
to hack people to receive uh
that kind of affection it's hard for you
to receive the affection or it's hard
for you to not receive the affection
it's hard for me to receive the
affection what makes it
what makes it hard when people hug you
no no not at that moment like uh when
when people hug me and people that i'm
i feel a deep connection with hug me i
have no problem
uh the problem i have is that i feel
that i feel um that i'm lacking in
general
of affection that i mean more do you
sometimes
i want more affection so what's wrong
with that
nothing there's nothing wrong so what's
that's part of
uh that
uh that i think i'm not getting
enough that is a problem
what are we going to do about it good
question
adam are you are you in a romantic
relationship right now
no when was the last time you were in
one or have you been in one
um that has been established uh
actually never uh i had a friend of mine
um from whom i will receive a lot of
affection
uh but she was i felt a lot of
toxicity like uh she had serious issues
like
suicide and this kind of stuff
and how did it feel to receive affection
from someone who had a lot of issues
um at those moments felt
good it felt good
yeah and what i mean what do you think
about it now
um that part was okay like uh
there is nothing about happening why
don't you think you've had a girlfriend
because i i haven't exposed myself
enough
okay yeah i haven't
shown my guts enough like you say
and what keeps you from showing your
cuts
um right now nothing
in general um many many kinds of fears
like uh
i want to be able to to dance in public
more and to sing
in public more and i'm very scared about
those things
and i want to do it because i do them
because i love them
and what keeps you from dancing and
singing in public
i don't know how to organize an event
here where i live
for example so it sounds like you're
you're not afraid of dancing and singing
in public you just haven't had the
opportunity
um yeah it feels that way
yeah what is not dancing and singing in
public have to do with finding a
girlfriend
[Music]
i related those topics as being of
authentic
and uh and that's using those things
as as means to to attract people
so do you feel like you need to do those
things to attract
girls
not exclusively like those are options
but those are the options that you think
about so i asked you about a girlfriend
and you started talking about dancing
and singing in public
yeah the answer to the girlfriend is no
like uh
i've never had a formal girlfriend
is that because is that because you
haven't danced and sung in public
no no no no it's not because of that so
so
okay this is the thing adam i want you
to notice a little bit about
how you're answering my questions yeah
okay so like i ask
so first of all yeah so i think that you
i think that
you know part of so the helping thing it
sounds to me like maybe you
you know you derive a lot of your
self-esteem
and a lot of your worth out of helping
other people
which can be wonderful but i think that
you've got to be a little bit careful
because that's still
it's really about your ego it's not
about the other person
the second thing is that it sounds to me
like you're hungry for affection and in
the past you've
received affection from people that like
have
some challenges or facing some problems
and maybe they're not really in a
relationship
i mean they're not in in the right mind
or right
place to be in a relationship but those
are the people that you've had affection
from in the past
um yeah right yes
so i like i i think this sounds kind of
weird but like i i
i think you need someone to love and i
think someone
you need to be loved by someone i agree
and that's where like all this savior
[ __ ] like all that savior complex and
stuff like let that stuff go it sounds
to me like
what you really need is like you need
someone to love
and take care of and in turn you need
someone to love and take care of you
yes and this is where i think for
whatever reason
i i don't think that you're
you're afraid that whatever you are
is not good enough
no and and so that's where you like
that's where you need to do the work
right because if i ask you like why you
have a girlfriend and you're like there
aren't events where i can sing and dance
in public like what
you know it's kind of a weird answer
yeah it is
and so what i'm hearing from that like i
i don't mean to make fun of you i'm not
i'm
really not trying to make fun of you
there but i know i know
and so it's kind of like it almost says
to me that
you know you'll be worthy of attracting
someone
when you can display your best qualities
and that's when like you'll find a
girlfriend is when you can do these
things but i want you to be really
careful there
because like you know life is full of
all kinds of stuff that we don't do
because it's not the perfect timing i'll
i'll
apply to college when i know i can get a
4.0 gpa
i'll find a girlfriend once i'm in shape
i'll go to the gym once i exercise
enough at home so that i don't embarrass
myself when i go to the gym
oh yeah you know like all these kinds of
things we're like we don't want to do
stuff
until we're ready and if we really look
at this like what does ready mean
what ready means is that it alleviates
our anxiety because we're afraid of
failure
and so in order to deal with that fear
of failure and that fear of rejection
i'm going to become adam is going to be
such a [ __ ] sexy mess
he's going to be so hot singing and
dancing in public that the girls
won't be able to restrain themselves and
if you really think about it like what
does that mean it means that you wanna
like you're not
ready to put yourself out there until
you know
that they're gonna love you and that day
will never come
i know and so what you really need to
work on is
like your anxiety and fear
about like how you're not lovable yet
because you're absolutely lovable bro
yeah i know and so just give people the
opportunity
to love you yeah yeah yeah
i uh i tried
i tried to to to to do that
some days ago when uh when a friend of
mine was like um
we talked about the meeting and and she
just randomly
she she went to to her boyfriend adam
you know she didn't think about anyone
else listen
you gotta stop having these like
friend-zoned relationships with women if
you're interested in a woman and she's
got a boyfriend
go bark like go to a different woman and
if you like a girl
[ __ ] ask her out yeah
yeah and if she turns you down like
understand that it's gonna hurt and
you're gonna feel unlovable again
which is what you're afraid of in the
first place which is why you need to
sing and dance in front of them
because you're afraid they won't accept
you the way that you are
and when you get hurt log on to our
discord and tell people that you just
got rejected to
by a woman and that you feel that like
you're unlovable
and let us help you and then go and ask
out another girl
and stop trying to help people to get
them to fall in love with you
just let them fall in love with you
because of who you are not because you
helped them
overcome their codependency yeah
yeah i never thought i never thought
about
about all of this that way like i'm
um i'm very fine if uh if i actually had
a fear of
uh being unlovable
yeah i think you do
but you are lovable which is why it's so
[ __ ] sad
because you're a great i know i i know i
am yeah
but there's a part of you that believes
that you're not yeah
that's right
so that's what you got to work through
yeah yeah yeah i'm already trying to sit
without part of me
good good just dude
give people give give women the chance
to love you man
yeah give them the chance because it's
gonna be to their benefit it'll be
amazing
yeah yeah and of mine too
yeah both ways and i love that part of
life
yeah good but like look at that like you
love that part of life like who the [ __ ]
wouldn't want to date you
that's true yeah right so let them let
them
let them partake of a little bit of adam
yeah yeah
give them the gift of yourself yes
yes instead of trying to emotionally
support
chicks who have boyfriends like what
yeah
what the [ __ ]
yeah that guy
[Music]
they have the boyfriend it's like
why why yeah why don't they why don't
they do their
their [ __ ] also i can't why why are you
talking to a girl who has a boyfriend
adam
excuse me can you repeat yeah why are
you like talking to a girl who has a
boyfriend like go talk to a different
girl who's available
yeah yeah yeah yeah definitely
like i mean i want to be a genuine
friend to the peop to people i know
well good for you i'd say find a
girlfriend first and then go be a
genuine friend to the rest of the world
oh interesting interesting yep
yeah because maybe i focus too much on
being a genuine friend
yes yes finding a girlfriend yes yeah
you're damn right
yeah i do yep so your emotional energy
like she's not
like put it into someone who will love
you back
yes in the way that you love them
yeah okay
yeah yeah now now i'm re-prioritizing my
my
my my myself or what i'm gonna do
in general good good
good luck adam can you repeat i said
good luck
oh thank you thank you man
uh i love talking to you i love talking
to you too
i think you're a delight to talk to
thank you